osi
unicast/multicast/broadcast
dns
firewall (types: packet-filtering, proxy firewalls-7, stateful multilayer inspeciton SMLI 3-4-7
VPN (enrypted tunnel)
distributed processing (pull resources together - pluses: data recovery, reliable, low cost, easy to expand)
ipconfig and ifconfig
domain vs workgroup (4 parameters - domain: cetralized, one admin, good for lar.network, any network)
data encapsulation in networking - (header, data, trailer(


securit 8 steps
authenticatio
passwords
updates
antivirus
firewall
no phishing
cryptography
securing dns

security c vs c++ vs java
java!
pointers, code translation, storage allocation, inheritance, overall

soursces of malware: pop-ups, removable media, doc and exe files, internet downloads,
networks connections, email, ads

how email works?

threats: natural, man made, tech, supply sys

black box vs white box

use-case testing (test functionality - black box!)

static vs dynamic testing (prevention vs cure)

software testing?
module testing-integration testing-sys testing-acceptance testing

steps to address issues while testing (record, report, control)

cyber attacks
  SQL senq.quary.laguage attacks (in-band SQLi, Blind SQLi, Out-of-bound SQLi
  
  spoofing (prettending)
  
  DDoS (denial access attacks)  botnet controller
  
  ARP poisoning 
  address resolution protocol     package filtering/keeping away from trust relationships/arp spoofing
  
  ransomware (type of malware 3 types: scareware, screen lockers, encryption ransomware)
  
  active vs passive
  
  social engineering (phishing attack, spear phishing attack, whaling phishing attack)
  
  man in the middle (client - server)
  
  black hat hackers vs white hat hackers (authorized)
  
  honeypots
  
  
  cryptography
    confidentiality
    non-repudiation (digital signature)
    authenticity
    integrity
   
  
  RSA
    Duo security
    Okta
    Google Authenticator
    LastPass

Safer
  secure and fast and encryptio routine(saffer)
  64-bit block size and a byte-oriented algorithm.
  
  PKI (public key infrustructure) howe it works
      1. requst for digital certificate to Certificate Authority
      2. issued
      3. digital certificate signed by 
      4. digital certificte used to encript data and then it can be send
      
  Blowfish
      64-bit symmetric encritptoi algorith
      variable in nature
      
  Block cipher vs stream cipher
  
  8 Phases of the Cyber Kill Chain Process
Lockheed Martin’s original cyber kill chain model contained seven sequential steps:

Phase 1: Reconnaissance
During the Reconnaissance phase, a malicious actor identifies a target and explores vulnerabilities and weaknesses that can be exploited within the network. As part of this process, the attacker may harvest login credentials or gather other information, such as email addresses, user IDs, physical locations, software applications and operating system details, all of which may be useful in phishing or spoofing attacks. Generally speaking, the more information the attacker is able to gather during the Reconnaissance phase, the more sophisticated and convincing the attack will be and, hence, the higher the likelihood of success.

Phase 2: Weaponization
During the Weaponization phase, the attacker creates an attack vector, such as remote access malware, ransomware, virus or worm that can exploit a known vulnerability. During this phase, the attacker may also set up back doors so that they can continue to access to the system if their original point of entry is identified and closed by network administrators.

Phase 3: Delivery
In the Delivery step, the intruder launches the attack. The specific steps taken will depend on the type of attack they intend to carry out. For example, the attacker may send email attachments or a malicious link to spur user activity to advance the plan. This activity may be combined with social engineering techniques to increase the effectiveness of the campaign.

Phase 4: Exploitation
In the Exploitation phase, the malicious code is executed within the victim’s system.

Phase 5: Installation
Immediately following the Exploitation phase, the malware or other attack vector will be installed on the victim’s system. This is a turning point in the attack lifecycle, as the threat actor has entered the system and can now assume control.

Phase 6: Command and Control
In Command & Control, the attacker is able to use the malware to assume remote control of a device or identity within the target network. In this stage, the attacker may also work to move laterally throughout the network, expanding their access and establishing more points of entry for the future.

Phase 7: Actions on Objective
In this stage, the attacker takes steps to carry out their intended goals, which may include data theft, destruction, encryption or exfiltration.
  
 
  OS
  scheduling algoriths? 6processes
FCFS   - first come first se. (mulitple level queues)
shortest job first - (shortest remainin time)
priority scheduling - (Round Robin)

  hacking server?
reconnaissance
scanning
gain access
maintain access
cover tracks

  sniffing tools? for networks
  wireshark 
  tcpdump
  msn sniffer 2 (old)
  ettercap (man in the middle)
  dsniff ()
  etherape

OS types
  real-time
  multi-programmed
  batched
  distributed
  time sharing

  types of address space 
  Logical vs Physical
  (variable)
  (CPU generated)
  (viewable)
  
 
  Linux shells
bash
ksh
csh
zsh
fish

  Linus processe
ready
running
blocked
completd/terminted
zombie

---
Secuire a server
  firewall (jpacke filtering, multilayer)
  testing whte had blackhat
  athentication
  passwords
  updated soft
  encription (SSL)
  no remote access
  
  
         packet-
  honecomb
  
  
  Strength 
    passion and constant improvement view on thins
    problem-solving
    communication, 
    creative, art, artistic
    leadership
  Weakness
     i like to get to the bottom of things (on my own)
     i like to retrun and reprocess 
  
